Arch doc update (#357)
Consensys/linea-monorepo: docs/architecture-description.md

# Gas price setting

Gas pricing on Linea is designed to ensure the following three properties:
* Sequencer's inclusion logic is aligned to the L1 fee market. This is to avoid exploiting Linea to execute
transactions for unsustainably low fees
* The fees charged to Linea's user represent their fair usage of the network. Unlike the vanilla Ethereum
protocol, gas price on Linea and other rollups is not 2-dimensional (base fee, priority fee). There's at least L1 fees
(execution fees and blob fees), infrastructural cost (mostly proving, but not only), potential priority fee
(only when there's a high congestion and there's competition for L2 block space). This is an issue for interoperability,
because vanilla Ethreum API isn't tailored for this. That's why there's a Besu plugin addressing this issue and
providing gas price depending on input transaction

> * Linea remains compatible with users runing vanilla nodes. Namely, `eth_gasPrice` returns fees guaranteeing that

Reviewer: missing n in running

# Gas price setting

> There are 3 aspects of gas pricing on Linea:

Reviewer: to vs. of

* Ensure Sequencer's inclusion logic is aligned to the L1 fee market. This is to avoid exploiting Linea to execute
transactions for unsustainably low fees

> * Ensure the best user experience for users who use Linea nodes with extended capabilities. Unlike the vanilla Ethereum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The fees charged to Linea's user represent their fair usage of the network. Unlike the vanilla Ethereum
```

protocol, gas price on Linea and other rollups is not 2-dimensional (base fee, priority fee). There's at least L1 fees
(execution fees and blob fees), infrastructural cost (mostly proving, but not only), potential priority fee
(only when there's a high congestion and there's competition for L2 block space). This is an issue for interoperability,
because vanilla Ethreum API isn't tailored for this. That's why there's a Besu plugin addressing this issue and
providing gas price depending on input transaction

> * Ensure an OK user experience for users who run vanilla nodes. Namely, eth_gasPrice should return fees high enough, so

Reviewer: Acceptable vs. OK would be better here

Also, `eth_gasPrice` vs. eth_gasPrice

> * Linea remains compatible with users runing vanilla nodes. Namely, `eth_gasPrice` returns fees guaranteeing that

Author: ```suggestion
* Linea remains compatible with users running vanilla nodes. Namely, `eth_gasPrice` returns fees guaranteeing that
```

> * Ensure an acceptable user experience for users who run vanilla nodes. Namely, `eth_gasPrice` should return fees high enough, so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Linea remains compatible with users runing vanilla nodes. Namely, `eth_gasPrice` returns fees guaranteeing that
```

99.9% of transactions are includable on Linea.

This is how these challenges were solved technically:

![gas price API](assets/gasPrice.drawio.svg)

> Coordinator fetches L1 fees data, based on which it will compute gas pricing components. There are 3:

Reviewer: There are 3 aspects to this:

Author: I'll change to "there are 3 of them", I prefer components here

* Fixed cost. Represents infrastructural cost per unit of L2 gas. Doesn't really depend on L1 and it's just a
configuration in Coordinator
* Variable cost. Cost of a 1 byte of compressed data on L2, which is finalized on L1 contract. Depends on the fees Linea
pays for finalization, which in turn depends on L1 blob and execution fee market
* Legacy cost. Recommended gas price for vanilla Ethereum API (`eth_gasPrice`)

## Gas pricing propagation

> This information is delivered to nodes 2 ways:

Reviewer: `in 2`

* via extraData, part of the vanilla Ethereum Protocol
* via RPC calls (only Geth and Besu are supported and tested)

### ExtraData

> The Coordinator sends extraData to the Sequencer via `miner_setExtraData`. ExtraData contains all 3 fields mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Coordinator sends extraData to the Sequencer via `miner_setExtraData`. ExtraData contains all 3 fields mentioned above (fixed cost, variable cost and legacy cost).
```

The Sequencer in turn uses this information for inclusion logic, to include only profitable transactions, and it adds last

> received extraData to the next block it seals. Once it gets inside a block, it's propagated to all the nodes on Linea

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
received extraData to the next block it seals. This ensures that pricing information are propagated to all the nodes on Linea
```

via P2P as a block header's field. And since this info is on all the nodes, they can use this information to figure out,

> what's gas price for a given transaction that would make it includable on Linea. This currently is possible with Besu +

Reviewer: `what's gas price for a given transaction that would make it includable on Linea` could be

`what the gas price is for a given transaction that would make it includable on Linea`

> Linea plugin with a custom linea_estimateGas method.

Reviewer: `linea_estimateGas` vs. linea_estimateGas
